# Build-APIs-with-Swagger-and-OAS-3.0
Design-driven development.

Define consumer and server interaction via REST APIs. 
 - standardization using OpenAPI Specification 3.0.
 - decide on paths, operations, securitySchemes, requestBodies, responseBodies, httpStatus to cover etc

Use Swagger Hub. Exporting client SDK and server stub.

Integrate client SDK into Angular application. 

Implement server-side API
 - host and run Java machine on cloud. 
 - Use API proxy.
<br>

### Document List

- Build Swagger APIs and OAS 3.docx - Instructions notes
- Notes.txt - some possible changes to pom.xml. Java 8 is used for this repo. Java upgrade broke codes with deprecated elements.
- yaml files
   * simpleAPI.yaml 
     * intro to document structure of OAS 3.0
   * LearnSwaggerSG7-h-plus_blog_api-2.0.0-resolved.yaml 
     * how to GET different elements of articles
     * new: put document Objects under components for reusability 
   * blogPostAPI.yaml 
     * how to POST a blog article
     * new: reuse of schemas under component for requestBody and responseBody
   * openapi.yaml 
     * a more complete example
     * includes GET and POST operations.
     * different httpStatus codes for responseBodies 
     * new: use of parameters, schemas, securitySchemes under component.

- Angular client app screengrabs:
  * Angular client app-rest-api-product service typescript file 
    * product.service.ts is part of client SDK auto-generated by Swagger Hub. 
    * contains codes to call API for different paths and operations.
  * Angular app component typescript file 
    * app.component.ts put together components for Angular application. 
    * It imports product.service.ts from Swagger client SDK.
  * Angular app running locally in Visual Studio Code 
    * proof of successful running of Angular application locally after import of client SDK into Angular frame.
  * Screengrab of angular app on localhost 4200 
    * proof of work. 
    * note: No image as none was hosted on Swagger virtual hub.

- Server-side API implementation screengrabs:

  * ProductService java file with additional codes to build out server side API implementation
    * The java file with service layer code to call ProductAPIcontroller.java which is from Swagger Hub server stub
    * The only extra java file on server side
  * Localhost server stub API implementation to GET products 
    * shows successful running on localhost.
  * local machine running server stub API implementation 
    * shows successful Java Spring Boot initialization in Visual Studio Code using server stub from Swagger Hub.
  * Azure Vm for Swagger API
    * shows successful deployment of VM on Microsoft Azure that hosts API server
  * Azure Vm for Swagger API 2
    * shows details of deployed VM 

- API proxy
  * Google Apigee Edge, AWS API Gateway, Azure API Management, IBM API Connect
  * Link to integration guide on swagger.io and in "instructions notes".
